---
title: "Terms and Definitions"
linktitle: "Terms and Definitions"
type: book  # Do not modify.
date: "2020-08-09T00:00:00Z"
toc: true
weight: 230
---
***

**Abort:** The requirement of aircraft to
return to a base and become Inactive.

**Action Rating:** How good a unit is at
fighting. Training, experience, doctrine
and leadership

**Active Aircraft:** An aircraft which has
been refitted and is capable of flying air
missions.

**Air Base Level:** The size of an Air Base’s
facilities.

**Armor Unit:** A unit that is very heavy in
AFVs with little or no organic infantry.
These units are marked by yellow backgrounds on their unit symbols.

**Attack-Capable Unit:** A combat unit
that has a non-parenthesized Combat
Strength of zero or more.

**Barrage:** An attack made by artillery,
ships, or aircraft.

**Break-Down Regiment:** A portion of
a multi-step unit detached to allow the
division to cover more than one hex.

**Bridging:** The use of Engineer-Capable
units to lessen the MP cost of crossing
river features.

**Burrito as Big as Your Head:** A food
item sold by a local establishment which
was about a foot long and four inches
wide. Many a design decision in this
series was made over these three pound
burritos. (That way we knew what to
blame...)

**Close Terrain:** Terrain types providing
limited mobility to AFVs as well as some
cover. Such terrain in the defender’s
hex would require the use of the Close
Terrain line of the Combat Table.

**Combat Mode:** A unit mode with a
lower movement allowance and a higher
combat value. In this mode, the unit is
deployed for action.

**Combat Supply:** The supply required
to fight using the regular Combat Table
and required by artillery units to fire
their Barrage Strengths.

**Combat Unit:** A ground unit with a
Combat Strength of zero or more.

**Combo Type Aircraft:** A plane that
can fulfill two of the basic aircraft roles.
Usually, this will be limited to aircraft
which can function as either Tactical
Bombers or Transports.

**Consolidation:** Realignment of units
so that a single stronger formation is
generated from two or more crippled
ones.

**Construction:** The creation or repair
of facilities (air bases, ports, hedgehogs)
using Engineer-Capable units.

**Dead Pile:** Each player should keep his
eliminated units organized for possible
rebuilding.

**Detrain:** The act of ending a rail move.

**Detrainable Hex:** A railroad hex that
contains either a village, minor city,
major city, port, or Combat Mode HQ.

**Die or Dice Roll Modifier (DRM):**
Any one of a number of additions or
subtractions from the die (or dice) rolled
on the game’s tables.

**Direct Draw:** The act of using SP that
are within the supply draw range of a
unit (for whatever purpose) without
using the assistance of an HQ.

**Disorganized Mode (DG):** A state of
chaos generated by enemy activity which
inhibits a unit’s smooth functioning.

**Divisional Unit:** A unit which is either
a division itself, or part of a multi-unit
formation.

**DUKW:** D = year of manufacture (the
4th year of the war); U = utility vehicle,
K = all-wheel drive, W = wheel driven...
basically amphibious trucks. Built by
General Motors with the full designation
DUKW-353

**Dumps:** Any stack of SP on the map,
whether on the ground or loaded on a
Transport Point, etc.

**Engineer-Capable Unit:** An engineer
or HQ unit in Combat Mode. (Note
that related types such as Rail Repair,
Assault Engineers, Pioneers, and Para/
Glider Engineers are not considered
engineer capable.)

**Entrain:** The act of loading something
onto a train in order to use rail capacity.

**Eq Repl:** A replacement unit consisting
of heavy vehicles, aircraft, or weapons
needed to rebuild heavy units.

**Exhausted:** Internal stocks have had
both of their two allotments used.

**Exploitation Mode:** A combat result
that allows units to move and attack in
the Exploitation Phase.

**Exploitation Result (e):** Combat results
which might put some attacking units
into Exploitation Mode.

**Extender:** A 5-point Transport Point
dedicated to providing connections for
trace supply purposes.

**Extremely Close Terrain:** A heavily
built-up urban area or mountainous
terrain which is easily defended by few
units.

**Fighters (F-Type):** A fighter type air
unit.

**Flak:** The ability of ground units and
ships to resist air attack.

**Formation Marker:** A counter used
to replace any number of units from
the same higher formation (generally
a division, or a Soviet Corps) so as to
eliminate big stacks and create some
limits on intelligence.

**Fortifications:** Features permanently
printed on the map which assist ground
units in defense.

**Fuel:** Supply which is used to move
tracked or truck units about.

**Fully-Motorized:** A combat unit with
two wheels under its unit symbol—one
with enough transport for all to ride.

**Game Turn:** Game play corresponding
to a half-week or quarter-week of real
time consisting of two Player Turns.

**Hedgehog:** A moderate degree of fieldworks 
in a hex to assist ground units in
defense.

**Hip Shoot:** An air Barrage that behaves
much like an Overrun. Named for the
technique of stopping a mortar unit
while on the road to deploy and shoot
with no warning.

**HQ:** A headquarters and its support
systems. Each HQ also represents many
smaller service units, and the logistical
capacity to support a group of units.

**Inactive Aircraft:** An aircraft which has
expended its capabilities and has yet to
refit. Such units cannot fly at all.

**Inactivation:** The process making an
Active aircraft become Inactive after it
is “used.”

**Independent Units:** Combat units that
are neither multi-step units nor part of
a multi-unit formation.

**Internal Stocks:** Combat Supply a unit
carries about by itself.

**In Supply:** A unit which has successfully
traced supply or had on-map supply
expended for it.

**Involuntary Mode:** A mode that players
cannot select, that is inflicted as a result
of combat.

**Landing Craft:** Small boats used for
transporting units and SP from larger
ships to landing beaches or ports.

**Leapfrogging:** The prohibited act of
loading something, moving it, loading it
onto another transport unit and moving
it again.

**Leg MP:** Movement points generated
by foot or hoof which are shown on the
counter in white.

**Low:** Internal stocks have had one of
their two allotments used.

**LST:** Landing Ship, Tank. A large ship
supporting amphibious operations.

**MA:** Abbreviation used for Movement
Allowance.

**Mech Unit:** A unit with both a heavy
AFV component and a large infantry
component. These units provide their
own combined arms teams. Such units
have a red unit symbol background.

**Move Mode:** A unit mode with a lower
combat value and a higher movement
allowance. The unit has sacrificed some
security for speed.

**Multi-Track Railroad:** A modern RR
featuring two or more track sets, many
sidings, and support facilities. Top of
the line rail transport support.

**Non-Combat Unit:** Any ground unit
without a Combat Strength such as SP,
Air Bases, or Transport Points.

**Non-Divisional Unit:** Any unit which
is neither a division itself nor part of a
multi-counter formation.

**Non-Motorized:** A unit that requires
shoe leather or horses to get around.

**Non-Phasing Player:** The guy whose
player turn it isn’t.

**Offensive Aircraft:** Planes that have
non-parenthesized Air Combat Ratings.

**Open Terrain:** Terrain essentially free
of obstruction.

**Option Number or Option Result:** A
portion of a combat result which gives
the player a choice between step losses
or hexes of retreat.

**Organic Truck:** A Transport Point that
is assigned to a specific formation. These
represent the internal transportation in
these units. While generically referred
to as ‘trucks’ other types of Transport
Point might actually be used (as shown
on the counter).

**“Other type” Unit:** A unit which is
neither mech nor armor.

**Overruns:** Attacks made by units during
movement.

**Patrol Zone:** The area within 10 hexes
of an Active Fighter on its Air Base.
This represents the normal operation
of Fighters to contest the use of that
air space.

**Pax Repl:** A replacement unit made up
of little more than warm bodies.

**Phasing Player:** The guy whose player
turn it is.

**Player Turn:** One half of a Game Turn,
in which one player goes through the
sequence of play from his Aircraft Refit
through his Clean Up.

**Rail Capacity:** The total number of SP
of rail transport a player can use in a
single player turn.

**Railhead:** A boundary between usable
and unusable railroad hexes.

**Rail Repair (aka RR) Units:** Combat
units capable of railroad conversion.

**Refitting:** The act of converting Inactive
aircraft into Active ones. Essentially, the
aircraft are being over-hauled, rearmed,
and refueled to participate in future air
operations.

**Regimental Equivalents (RE):** A quick
and dirty measure of unit size.

**Replacement Units (Repls):** Combat
units that can be combined in different
ways to rebuild dead or damaged units.

**Replenishment:** The refilling of used
internal stocks.

**Reserve Mode:** Shows a unit which is
awaiting orders or otherwise in readiness
for quick action.

**Reserve Release:** When a player decides
to remove a unit from Reserve Mode
and deploy it into action.

**Road:** This term is used when a rule is
meant to apply to all road-like features
in the game (roads of different caliber,
tracks, and railroads).

**Rounding Rule:** The standard method
of dealing with fractions in any Gamers
brand game.

**Strat Bomber (S):** A strategic bomber.

**Semi-Motorized:** A combat unit with
some trucks and other transport, but
not enough to be fully motorized. These
units have one wheel under their unit
symbol.

**Single-Track Railroads:** The standard
railroad feature in the game.

**Steps, Step Loss:** A portion of a unit’s
strength and size used to keep track of
the attrition effects of combat.

**Strat Mode:** A combat unit that is in full
road movement posture. Most security
precautions have been dumped to allow
fast movement.

**Supply Points (SP):** The measure of
bulk supply. Stockpiled by the “great
quartermaster in the sky” in just the
right proportions of everything units
need at different times—luckily for us,
right?

**Surprise:** Units being caught tactically
unprepared; the gaming equivalent of
bringing a knife to a gun fight.

**Tactical Bombers (T-type):** These air
units fight at lower altitudes than do
strategic bombers, often in close support
of ground units.

**Throw Range:** The distance HQs are
able to provide SP and Trace Supply to
units which need them.

**Trainbusting Zone:** The area affected
by a successful Trainbusting mission.

**Transports (Tpt):** A Transport aircraft.

**Trace Supply:** The basic handling of
subsistence supply.

**Transportation Equivalents:** This is
a determination of the SP “weight” of
units to allow a quick assessment of the
capacity needed to transport them.

**Track MP:** Movement points of all-
terrain vehicles (tracked or wheeled)
which are shown on the counter in red.

**Truck MP:** Movement points of less
maneuverable vehicles (usually trucks)
that are shown on the counter in black.

**Very Close Terrain:** Terrain which is
extremely tight for vehicles and which
provides much cover and concealment.

**Via HQ Supply:** A supply path using
an HQ’s throw range.

**Voluntary Mode:** Modes which a player
can select during the Movement Phase.

**Zones of Control (ZOCs):** The effect
of combat units projected into hexes
adjacent to their location. While the
game has no ZOCs for most purposes,
some things (supply trace, truck MP
movement, etc.) are influenced by the
presence of enemy units.
